Vote counters worked all night in the crucial states that will decide the cliffhanger election with margins narrowing in Arizona, Georgia and Pennsylvania as former Vice President Joe Biden edged toward the 270 electoral votes needed to win and President Donald Trump pinned his hopes on a more uphill route back to the White House.

Two days after Election Day, the slow churn of results is expected to offer more clarity Thursday on who will lead America for the next four years and when that final result will become known. Biden currently leads with 253 electoral votes to Trump's 213. The race is coming down to tight vote counts in Arizona, Georgia, Nevada and Pennsylvania.
If the former vice president wins Pennsylvania, the race will be over. Thousands of mostly mail-in votes remain uncounted so far, with Biden trailing by just over 160,000 votes. The Keystone State's Lt. Gov. John Fetterman, a Democrat, told CNN that the result could come as early as Thursday and that he believed outstanding ballots in areas that favor Democrats would deliver a clear win for Biden.
The Democratic nominee has also been making a run in Georgia, which has 16 electoral votes, where the President's lead dwindled to about 18,500 votes overnight as results came in from Fulton County around Atlanta with 96% of the state vote count reported.
The story was reversed in Arizona, where several tranches of votes from Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix, narrowed Biden's lead to just under 69,000 votes with Trump's team insisting the President will eventually prevail and keep his hopes of a path to 270 alive.
There is also a close contest in Nevada, which released very little information on Wednesday with an estimated 200,000 ballots outstanding. The state is expected to report another batch of results around midday Thursday. Democrats had the state down as a likely win but it is closer than expected. The final result will come down again to mail-in votes, which could favor Biden since thousands are outstanding in Clark County, around Las Vegas which is usually Democratic territory. If Biden holds leads in Arizona and Nevada, he will get to 270 and will be able to claim the presidency.
Trump's team, seeking to keep his slim path to victory alive, has launched a flurry of sometimes contradictory legal challenges and political offensives, demanding vote counts continue in states where he is behind and wanting them shut down in those where he leads.
Trump did not appear in public on Wednesday after accusing Democrats of trying to steal the election -- even though continuing vote counts are working through legally cast ballots.
Biden did come before the cameras, and while stopping short of claiming victory, he sought to present an image of momentum and confidence and made a thematic pivot from the partisanship of the campaign trail to the calls for unity expected of an incoming president. He dismissed Trump's attempts to undermine the results, stating that "the people rule. Power can't be taken or asserted."
"There will not be blue states and red states when we win. Just the United States of America," Biden said Wednesday afternoon as he promised to bring the country together. "We are not enemies. What brings us together as Americans is so much stronger than anything that can tear us apart."
CNN projects Biden will win at least three of Maine's four electoral votes, plus Wisconsin, Michigan, Hawaii, Rhode Island, Minnesota, Virginia, California, Oregon, Washington state, Illinois, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Colorado, Connecticut, New Jersey, New York, Vermont, Delaware, Washington, DC, Maryland, Massachusetts and one of Nebraska's five electoral votes. Nebraska and Maine award two electoral votes to their statewide winners and divide their other electoral votes by congressional districts.
CNN projects Trump will win Montana, Texas, Iowa, Idaho, Ohio, Mississippi, Wyoming, Missouri, Kansas, Utah, Louisiana, Alabama, South Carolina, North Dakota, South Dakota, Arkansas, Indiana, Oklahoma, Kentucky, West Virginia and Tennessee and four of Nebraska's five electoral votes.
Trump mounts aggressive legal strategy to contest results